content/posts/Darjeeling.md, before:

﻿+++
date = '2025-11-10T12:47:41-05:00'
draft = false
title = 'Darjeeling'
+++

# Visiting Darjeeling after 40 years

A long time ago, when I lived in Salem, India, I often visited Yercaud, a town about 30 minutes away by car. Yercaud was a small town where you could walk everywhere. You didn't need a vehicle to get around. My childhood mind made me think that all hill stations would be just small, sleepy towns with nothing much to do.

When I was in 10th grade, my school organized a trip to Nepal, and during that visit, we also went to Darjeeling. Darjeeling was a pleasant surprise. I never imagined a hill station could have so many businesses and visitors. 

![Darjeeling](https://i.postimg.cc/59gCqRYd/PXL-20251005-031742652.jpg)

The above picture was shot in 2025. No pictures from the 1970s 😭

Let me talk a little more about the 70s. Darjeeling is about 6,000 feet high, and we took a train up the hill. The trip was pretty long — it took almost the whole day! However, in 2025, we took the road and the trip took only about 3 hours. On our way up, we saw a train climb up the hill, which brought back some old memories!

On our way up the hill, we happened to see one of Darjeeling's main attractions, the steam engine.
<a href="https://postimg.cc/zVvcttKf" target="_blank"><img  style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/Wbwc4x40/copilot_image_1759554357169.png" alt="copilot_image_1759554357169"></a>

*Yes, people walk, stand, talk, cross, and even ride on it. It's okay, and it's a part of life in Darjeeling!* Perhaps it's the same engine that was used 40 years ago. Who can say? 

---

It's been over 40 years, and I still fondly remember Darjeeling tea. Over time, I've heard many people praise it as some of the best black tea around, and naturally, the first thing I tried was their tea, which truly lived up to the reputation.

|                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Golden yellow tea | <a href="https://postimg.cc/Thy1TQJr" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 300px; max-height: 400px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/zD7gScLP/PXL-20251004-120243602-PORTRAIT.jpg" alt="PXL-20251004-120243602-PORTRAIT"></a> |

We arrived in Darjeeling late in the afternoon. After checking into our hotel and having lunch, we strolled to Market Street, the main commercial hub and the popular hangout spot for tourists. If I were to describe it as crowded, that would be an understatement given the sheer number of people there. It was swamped; the only thing visible around us was a sea of heads. We happened to step into Glenary’s, which is a bakery on Market Street. 

<a href='https://postimg.cc/s1tRbCnZ' target='_blank'><img src='https://i.postimg.cc/8PCPJ1Mw/PXL-20251004-123122272.jpg'  style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" border='0' alt='PXL-20251004-123122272'></a>
`People waiting in line to pay for their purchase at Glenary's.`

That night, a storm triggered many landslides, making transportation in Darjeeling nearly impossible. While not officially suspended, driving was effectively impossible the following day.

To make the most of our time, we decided to explore on foot and visited the Happy Valley tea estate. The walk was quite interesting, with narrow, winding roads—if I recall correctly, we crossed at least 10 hairpin bends. Did I mention how narrow it was? If two motorcycles met on the road, one had to wait for the other to pass. That narrow. We walked for around 45 minutes to an hour, stopping multiple times for pictures and snacks. Finally, we reached Happy Valley and enjoyed some tea tasting.

<a href="https://postimg.cc/c6VHCYD0" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;"  src="https://i.postimg.cc/ncLQdGBj/PXL_20251005_050333897.jpg" alt="PXL_20251005_050333897"></a>

Since we spent most of the day walking, we observed a few interesting things. First, the process of water distribution to homes. It's easy to imagine how water is supplied from the treatment plant to our houses. As shown in the image below, water flows through a main pipe, from which individual house taps are connected.

<img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;"  src ="https://d9-wret.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/assets/palladium/production/s3fs-public/styles/full_width/public/thumbnails/image/ec_te_ofr_schematic_l.png?itok=kLSIrUqf" >

However, in Darjeeling, it is a different story. Each house is independently connected to the water treatment plant, and you will see hundreds of pipes laid above ground throughout the town!

<a href="https://postimg.cc/Hjfxn5SL" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/gk06MH83/PXL_20251005_113447191.jpg" alt="PXL_20251005_113447191"></a>

I am truly amazed by the reasoning and economics behind running thousands of pipes throughout the town. It must be an enormous maintenance challenge! 

| Only in Darjeeling                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| is it quite common to see encroachments on sidewalks in India, like street hawkers and panhandlers. But have you noticed how law enforcement sometimes encroaches as well? Interestingly, they were the only encroachers in this area, and I find it puzzling that they built a booth where no police officer was stationed, taking up the entire sidewalk! | <a href='https://postimg.cc/6TD3qRHB' target='_blank'><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src='https://i.postimg.cc/m2rFdyC1/PXL-20251005-101955229.jpg' border='0' alt='PXL-20251005-101955229'></a> |

Let's talk about what makes Darjeeling such a wonderful place to visit. I had a lovely three-night stay there. My room had a window that overlooked a beautiful valley, which was often shrouded in dense fog. It was truly breathtaking to watch the mountains and tea estates gently emerge and disappear as the fog moved. However, on one of the three mornings I was there, I experienced this:



<a href="https://postimg.cc/Z01Rn3wG" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/02NJt0Dy/PXL_20251006_001148419.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_001148419"></a>

And this!

<a href="https://postimg.cc/5jZ0yvPy" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/Nf0rNkm6/PXL_20251006_010147864.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_010147864"></a>

We visited a Japanese Temple; Like most of the other Peace Pagodas, it was built under the guidance of Nichidatsu Fujii (1885–1985), a Buddhist monk from Japan and founder of the Nipponzan-Myōhōji Buddhist Order.

|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |
| <a href="https://postimg.cc/9rZf7MSc" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/3Jb0z0F0/PXL_20251006_042152148.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_042152148"></a> |     |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |
| <a href="https://postimg.cc/nCBLDz5Q" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/ZKDvXvxj/PXL_20251006_042814966.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_042814966"></a> |     |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |

We did take a ride on the toy train; it is real train that transports people! May be this was the engine that brought up and down the hill 40 years ago! Who knows?

<a href="https://postimg.cc/VdnNC6TK" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/qMZ6W6GH/PXL_20251006_120706697_NIGHT.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_120706697_NIGHT"></a>

<a href="https://postimg.cc/G4RmJRwq" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/RZ6JmCP5/PXL_20251006_112948237_MP.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_112948237_MP"></a>

<a href="https://postimg.cc/nCBLDz5C" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/xTFNBN3y/PXL_20251006_095800969.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_095800969"></a>

Before we wind up let me mention about Darjeeling momos! Mouth watering!

<a href="https://postimg.cc/1VN3M53j" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/hv2QDXWc/PXL_20251004_134732818_PORTRAIT_ORIGINAL.jpg" alt="PXL_20251004_134732818_PORTRAIT_ORIGINAL"></a>



*See you soon!*

Commit message:

Update Darjeeling post with improved details
Clarified that Yercaud is a hill station, refined tea description, and added information about Kanchenjunga in the Darjeeling post. Synced changes to public index files for consistency.

content/posts/Darjeeling.md, after:

﻿+++
date = '2025-11-10T12:47:41-05:00'
draft = false
title = 'Darjeeling'
+++

# Visiting Darjeeling after 40 years

A long time ago, when I lived in Salem, India, I often visited Yercaud, a hill station town about 30 minutes away by car. Yercaud was a small town where you could walk everywhere. You didn't need a vehicle to get around. My childhood mind made me think that all hill stations would be just small, sleepy towns with nothing much to do.

When I was in 10th grade, my school organized a trip to Nepal, and during that visit, we also went to Darjeeling. Darjeeling was a pleasant surprise. I never imagined a hill station could have so many businesses and visitors. 

![Darjeeling](https://i.postimg.cc/59gCqRYd/PXL-20251005-031742652.jpg)

The above picture was shot in 2025. No pictures from the 1970s 😭

Let me talk a little more about the 70s. Darjeeling is about 6,000 feet high, and we took a train up the hill. The trip was pretty long — it took almost the whole day! However, in 2025, we took the road and the trip took only about 3 hours. On our way up, we saw a train climb up the hill, which brought back some old memories!

On our way up the hill, we happened to see one of Darjeeling's main attractions, the steam engine.
<a href="https://postimg.cc/zVvcttKf" target="_blank"><img  style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/Wbwc4x40/copilot_image_1759554357169.png" alt="copilot_image_1759554357169"></a>

*Yes, people walk, stand, talk, cross, and even ride on it. It's okay, and it's a part of life in Darjeeling!* Perhaps it's the same engine that was used 40 years ago. Who can say? 

---

It's been over 40 years, and I still fondly remember Darjeeling tea. Over time, I've heard many people praise it as some of the best black tea around, and naturally, the first thing I tried was their tea, which truly lived up to the reputation.

|                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Golden yellow first-flush tea | <a href="https://postimg.cc/Thy1TQJr" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 300px; max-height: 400px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/zD7gScLP/PXL-20251004-120243602-PORTRAIT.jpg" alt="PXL-20251004-120243602-PORTRAIT"></a> |

We arrived in Darjeeling late in the afternoon. After checking into our hotel and having lunch, we strolled to Market Street, the main commercial hub and the popular hangout spot for tourists. If I were to describe it as crowded, that would be an understatement given the sheer number of people there. It was swamped; the only thing visible around us was a sea of heads. We happened to step into Glenary’s, which is a bakery on Market Street. 

<a href='https://postimg.cc/s1tRbCnZ' target='_blank'><img src='https://i.postimg.cc/8PCPJ1Mw/PXL-20251004-123122272.jpg'  style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" border='0' alt='PXL-20251004-123122272'></a>
`People waiting in line to pay for their purchase at Glenary's.`

That night, a storm triggered many landslides, making transportation in Darjeeling nearly impossible. While not officially suspended, driving was effectively impossible the following day.

To make the most of our time, we decided to explore on foot and visited the Happy Valley tea estate. The walk was quite interesting, with narrow, winding roads—if I recall correctly, we crossed at least 10 hairpin bends. Did I mention how narrow it was? If two motorcycles met on the road, one had to wait for the other to pass. That narrow. We walked for around 45 minutes to an hour, stopping multiple times for pictures and snacks. Finally, we reached Happy Valley and enjoyed some tea tasting.

<a href="https://postimg.cc/c6VHCYD0" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;"  src="https://i.postimg.cc/ncLQdGBj/PXL_20251005_050333897.jpg" alt="PXL_20251005_050333897"></a>

Since we spent most of the day walking, we observed a few interesting things. First, the process of water distribution to homes. It's easy to imagine how water is supplied from the treatment plant to our houses. As shown in the image below, water flows through a main pipe, from which individual house taps are connected.

<img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;"  src ="https://d9-wret.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/assets/palladium/production/s3fs-public/styles/full_width/public/thumbnails/image/ec_te_ofr_schematic_l.png?itok=kLSIrUqf" >

However, in Darjeeling, it is a different story. Each house is independently connected to the water treatment plant, and you will see hundreds of pipes laid above ground throughout the town!

<a href="https://postimg.cc/Hjfxn5SL" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/gk06MH83/PXL_20251005_113447191.jpg" alt="PXL_20251005_113447191"></a>

I am truly amazed by the reasoning and economics behind running thousands of pipes throughout the town. It must be an enormous maintenance challenge! 

| Only in Darjeeling                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| is it quite common to see encroachments on sidewalks in India, like street hawkers and panhandlers. But have you noticed how law enforcement sometimes encroaches as well? Interestingly, they were the only encroachers in this area, and I find it puzzling that they built a booth where no police officer was stationed, taking up the entire sidewalk! | <a href='https://postimg.cc/6TD3qRHB' target='_blank'><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src='https://i.postimg.cc/m2rFdyC1/PXL-20251005-101955229.jpg' border='0' alt='PXL-20251005-101955229'></a> |

Let's talk about what makes Darjeeling such a wonderful place to visit. I had a lovely three-night stay there. My room had a window that overlooked a beautiful valley, which was often shrouded in dense fog. It was truly breathtaking to watch the mountains and tea estates gently emerge and disappear as the fog moved. However, on one of the three mornings I was there, I experienced this:

<a href="https://postimg.cc/Z01Rn3wG" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/02NJt0Dy/PXL_20251006_001148419.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_001148419"></a>

These pictures are of Kanchenjunga, also known as Kangchenjunga, which is the third-highest mountain in the world, standing at an elevation of 8,586 meters (28,169 feet). It is located in the eastern Himalayas, straddling the border between India and Nepal.

<a href="https://postimg.cc/5jZ0yvPy" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/Nf0rNkm6/PXL_20251006_010147864.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_010147864"></a>

We visited a Japanese Temple; Like most of the other Peace Pagodas, it was built under the guidance of Nichidatsu Fujii (1885–1985), a Buddhist monk from Japan and founder of the Nipponzan-Myōhōji Buddhist Order.

|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |
| <a href="https://postimg.cc/9rZf7MSc" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/3Jb0z0F0/PXL_20251006_042152148.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_042152148"></a> |     |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |
| <a href="https://postimg.cc/nCBLDz5Q" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/ZKDvXvxj/PXL_20251006_042814966.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_042814966"></a> |     |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     |

We did take a ride on the toy train; it is real train that transports people! May be this was the engine that brought up and down the hill 40 years ago! Who knows?

<a href="https://postimg.cc/VdnNC6TK" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/qMZ6W6GH/PXL_20251006_120706697_NIGHT.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_120706697_NIGHT"></a>

<a href="https://postimg.cc/G4RmJRwq" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/RZ6JmCP5/PXL_20251006_112948237_MP.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_112948237_MP"></a>

<a href="https://postimg.cc/nCBLDz5C" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/xTFNBN3y/PXL_20251006_095800969.jpg" alt="PXL_20251006_095800969"></a>

Before we wind up let me mention about Darjeeling momos! Mouth watering!

<a href="https://postimg.cc/1VN3M53j" target="_blank"><img style="max-width: 500px; max-height: 300px;" src="https://i.postimg.cc/hv2QDXWc/PXL_20251004_134732818_PORTRAIT_ORIGINAL.jpg" alt="PXL_20251004_134732818_PORTRAIT_ORIGINAL"></a>

*See you soon!*
